We left off on the boolean statements, so
let's go ahead and
take a closer look at if statements.
Let's go ahead and make a cities
list again, like we've been doing.
Say it's NY, LA, SF,
Shift + Enter.
And let's go ahead and
say city = cities, zero index,
so hopefully you should know by now
that that means city is equal to NY.
Great.
So if we look at if statements,
so I can say if, oops.
If city == 'NY': print 'Party',
and we did this a bit in the last lecture.
Now something else we can do,
is we can have an else if, so
we have additional if else parts.
So I can say elif that would
be the else if statements.
I can say elif or elif,
depending how you wanna say it so,
else if city == 'LA' : print, oops.
Let me put double quotes there, so I can
have that single quote or apostrophe.
"It's hot here".
And then
else: print 'where am I?'.
Okay, so
you notice in city is equal to NY.
If we run that, we'll get party.
Let's go ahead and
try to get something else.
So let's set the city = cities [2].
So, that would make cities equal to SF,
and
if we run that it's going
to ask now where am I?
And you can combine if statements with for
loops.
So to do that, let's go ahead and
say for city in cities, and
then I'm gonna highlight all this.
And click Tab to bring it
over into the for loop.
So again, in Python this white
space is really important.
And it all has to be tabbed over once,
to the inside of this for loop.
So now what this is going to do,
it's going to have this if
statement inside of a for loop.
We click Shift + Enter,
we should get all three.
Party because it went
through New York first.
Then It's hot here,
because it went to L.A..
And then, where am I?,
because it went to SF.
Great.
So let's go ahead and
take a look at two more data structures,
dictionaries and then tuples.
So a tuple is a sequence object,
like a list or string, and
we can construct it by grouping sequences
of objects together with commas.
I'm going to do it without brackets.
Instead, we'll use parentheses.
So, I'll say t =, and instead of brackets,
like a list, I'm going to use parentheses.
I'm going to say it's (1,2,3).
Shift+Enter.
Great.
So now if I print my t,
I have my tuple there.
Now what makes this special
is that they're immutable, so
I can't append to them or
change elements of them.
So I can't say append(2).
I'm gonna get an error, so
this 'tuple' object has no attribute
'append', cuz you cannot change the tuple.
You can't change elements in them,
and you cannot append to them, great.
So tuples are really useful
anytime you wanna group different
pieces of data together in an object,
but you don't really want to
create a full class for them.
So let's go ahead and
then look at dictionaries real quick.
Dictionaries are basically an object
that's called the mapping object, or
they're also called associative
arrays in other languages.
So I can say,
let's go ahead and make a list.
So I'll say my_list = [1, 2, 3].
Shift+Enter.
And then to make a dictionary,
we use the curly brackets.
So I'm gonna say my
dictionary here is equal to,
and now I'm going to use
these curly brackets here.
And so, what a list, or
what a dictionary is gonna do is, the
index in a dictionary is called the key.
And the corresponding
dictionary entry is the value.
A dictionary can use almost
anything as the key.
And while we're forming
the list using square brackets,
the dictionaries use these curly brackets.
So lets go ahead and
make a list, or a dictionary.
We can say lets make
a dictionary of names and ages.
So we can say, Joe and
then I use a colon so
I have my key as Joe and
the value, his age,
will be 22, comma to enter a new key and
a new value.
You can say Mike.
And he can be 12 years old.
So Shift+Enter,
now we have our dictionary.
And I'm gonna say,
my_dict for my dictionary.
Let's go ahead and say,
we can call keys for it, as such,
by putting it in brackets like this,
almost like it was an index.
And then it gives me Joe's age, 22.
And the length command also
works on dictionaries.
So I can say len(my_dict), and
then I have two entries there.
So note that it doesn't count
the values and the keys as separate.
It counts the grouping as one,
so there's Joe and the age.
And then Mike and the age, and
that's two entries in this dictionary.
Great.
Okay, so that's it for
the tuples and dictionaries.
We're almost done with
the overview of Python,
one last thing I wanna show
you is creating functions.
So to create a function,
you can use D-E-F.
So I can say, D-E-F and then,
the name of my function.
So, for instance, let's say,
I wanted to get a function that
added two numbers together.
I could say adder is
the name of my function and
it takes x and a y.
So you name your function,
make parentheses and then have the inputs.
And then once wanna do a functions
to put a comment in Python.
There's two ways we can do this,
you can either do a hash tag, and so
a hash tag will comment anything you
type in afterwards, which means that
code won't run or, which is more common
for functions, is to use three quotations.
So I can say what you
should do is good practice.
Describe what the function's going to do.
So I can say This function will add x and
y together.
And then I'm going to close
it off with three quotations.
So notice how I'm using three
sets of quotation marks.
That just means anything in
between them will be a comment.
All right, so
now I have my adding functions.
So now I'm going to say, return answer.
So now I've built basically
the skeleton of my function.
So if I call this function adder and
input two variables, x and
y, it's gonna add them together and
return an answer.
So what's the answer gonna be?
Lets go ahead and
say the answer will then just be x+y.
It's a little bit of a silly function,
since you could just say plus y,
but let's go ahead and make it.
Great.
And now if I say adder and call five and
ten into it I should expect,
the answer, 15.
So you can imagine in the future
you can make really awesome and
complicated functions to
help you save time if you
realize you're gonna be calling
the same process over and over again.
Great.
And that's it for functions.
So that's about it as far as this really
quick crash course in Python syntax and
the overview.
You'll be learning a lot more as you go on
through the other lectures in the course.
Go ahead and feel free to start any
discussions if you have questions.
Again, if this is your first programming
language, I suggest you take it easy and
go off the code academy
resources that are free online.
They take a little longer but
they're well worth the effort.
All right, so that's it.
Let's just go over what we learned
in this lecture real quick.
Cities was a list.
And we learned how to use for loops and
if loops nested inside of them.
We learned about tuples,
basically an immutable form of a list.
And you can't append stuff to it or
change the items in it.
And then we learned about dictionaries,
which have a key and
then a value associated with that key.
And you can call the keys
to find out their values.
Length also works on them.
And then we learn how to
make a simple function.
Again, this is just a very quick overview.
If you have any questions,
feel free to put them on the discussion.
That's it for the Python overview.
All right.
Thanks guys.